---
layout: post
title: "Hack On"
date: 2013-11-15 08:44
comments: true
categories:
---
“This is a story of how a Baggins had an adventure, and found himself doing and saying things altogether unexpected.”
― J.R.R. Tolkien, *The Hobbit*


Capstones are underway. Sticky notes are moving. Ah, the sound of typing in the air. It's been a really fun week, and I've enjoyed the change in pace. These two day sprints put a little bit of the pressure on, and it is once again confirmed that I thrive on structure with a dash of anxiety. It also plays into my strength as an "achiever." But, of course, there's always time for the occasional ping pong break.


Tomorrow is the New York Times hackathon. We've been brainstorming ideas and trying to come up with some good hacks. There are a lot of sponsors with some really cool APIs and the possibilities are endless. I'm excited to see what some of the other teams come up with. We might also incorporate some of the stuff that I've been working on this week with my map application. Who knows? I'm up for whatever and I'm sure we will come up with something fun and interesting. And possible. I think I'm more nervous about being in a new environment and presenting an idea in front of people who know A LOT about technology. But that's the name of the game. Time to break out those public speaking skills again.


On Wednesday Imon and I attended a Women in Tech event through ISPossible. I think both of us forgot that there were non-engineering roles in companies; we've been in the code bubble for awhile now. A lot of the questions were general about being a woman in tech, and Imon and I found ourselves wanting to know more about the technology their companies were using. That was a good feeling.  We definitely walked away with some good snippets, but the event started late and I found myself thinking "I could be coding right now." That was the best feeling--to wish you had more time at your computer. All I want to do now is learn to write more code, delve deeper into my knowledge, and learn more languages. It's exciting but there's not enough time to do  everything I want to!


This afternoon we will be demoing our capstone projects as they stand now. That's a little frightening at the moment, especially since there are a couple of bugs I need to work out, and it is NOT pretty. But the basic functionality is there. Working on the map project has been really fun and gratifying, but it's definitely developing as I go. It feels very fluid, and so far I like what it's turning into. Next week I want to round it out and maybe add a timeline feature. But I definitely want to work on another project. I want to build something with more traditional users and a more robust back end. I think that would be great practice and also help me nail done some skills that haven't been exercised as much since we started front-end development.


Stay tuned this weekend for an update on the Hackathon.

“For victory is victory, however small, nor is its worth only from what follows from it.”
― J.R.R. Tolkien, *The Children of Húrin*


