---
layout: post
title: "Week 3"
date: 2013-10-04 09:10
comments: true
categories:
---
### ActiveRecord, Sinatra, RegEx, and Cronuts

As I look at the things we reviewed this week, it seems like we've covered a lot in a little bit of time. Each week we hit the ground running, and by the time we make it to Friday I am always left with some disorientation as I realize another week is over. Our Friday morning blogging ritual allows me the time to review, process, and remember the week past, something I think is critical to the learning process. As a side note, our blogging process made me think of a quote from C.S. Lewis, one of my favorite writers and theologians, "Whenever you are fed up with life, start writing: ink is a great cure of all human ills." I may not be taking ink to paper right now (although I do that as well), but this is close enough--and way more techie.


All of that being said, I really enjoyed our workshops on ActiveRecord and database structuring. Not only did we learn a lot about how this will affect us in our own ventures in applications, it also increasingly shed light on the structure of websites and user interfaces that I already use. I enjoy looking at websites and thinking through their potential database structure.


We then moved onto our SimStackworld Project--our first web application. This project started to bring together a lot of the concepts that we had been learning over the past several weeks. It involved Ruby, databases, and understanding how the internet works. As a side note I'd like to thank my brothers for exposing me to the world of gaming--there are many conversations here that I can follow because of the minimal amount of of knowledge I gained through living with you through the World of War Craft and Call of Duty years. Cheers to y'all. I enjoyed this project, but we definitely still had a lot of help from David and Nimit. At one point David commented that I was in "git hell." Yes, that feels about accurate. The building blocks are starting to come together, and I think after doing this project I have a better idea of how I could deploy a simple web application on my own. Hopefully this weekend will allow some more time to review the intricacies of the project that I may have stepped over while executing it. I hope to play around with that a little more this weekend, and I'm sure as we start on the web crawler project this will bring forth even more questions and capabilities.


This week I've been trying to brainstorm more about the kind of projects that I want to work on. Not only for my large end of the semester project, but even just little weekend and night projects to help me practice what I'm learning. In this learning environment, and in code especially, I think my best chance at developing (no pun intended) sharp coding skills is to build as many things as I can. I'm not saying I want to be a machine that cranks out unsophisticated applications, but I think the act of attempting to write some code on my own will increase my confidence in my own ability to learn and execute, and also give me a better idea of the kind of programming job that I want to pursue after graduation.


As a side note, New York is growing on me in some ways, and in some ways I think I may grow crazy here. I love the accessibility-- you can get anything you want here (cronuts, ramen burger--that's on the food agenda for this weekend). But sometimes I miss the green mountains, and I want to feel grass between my toes without having to go 50 blocks up to central park. And then there are the strange and confused looks when I tell someone my name. Oh, and I miss my dogs. Also, what's it with everyone here and "juicing"? Everywhere I turn everyone is talking about how they want to do a "juice fast." Mmmm, not me, I'll take my bagels and my cronuts and my tacos. On a more positive note, I love how much you walk here-- even though I sit for the majority of the day I have yet to experience back issues, and I feel healthy overall. It'll be interesting to see if I end up here post Fullstack; in many ways I'd be sad to start my coding career apart from my fellow Fullstackers. I can already see where New York would be a great community to launch a career in tech, and that draw may be enough to make me want to plant my feet here a little bit more permanently.


The cronut hunt is still on. I discovered that the bakery is about a block off my walk on my way to school, so I've started taking a detour everyday to checkout the line. Hopefully when the weather cools off a little bit people's cronut cravings will ebb (not mine though). I'm also planning on making a reservation for some cronuts. It will happen people, bear with me.


I've decided to start setting some goals. I've always enjoyed this process and I think it keeps me focused. Normally, I was in situations where goal setting was a natural part of the start of the semester, but with all the craziness of moving up here I've neglected this ritual. So I'm going to start small. Goals for this weekend: recover and rest--I think I may be coming down with something; attempt the Sinatra Linker project on Saturday (hence, come into Fullstack this Saturday); brush up on my hash syntax and regular expressions work, a little review never hurt anyone; find a ramen burger (I don't know why I've latched onto this idea, but I'm going for it. I may have some foodie tendencies); and lastly, but certainly not the least important, cheer on my DAWGS as they show Tennessee how to play some real football (this may be happening at Fullstack as the game is at 3:30--but hey, what are our double monitors for if not some live football streaming?). Oh, and I want to fix my octomailer configuration so that it sends out a link to my blog, and not just the content. Have a good one, friends.
