---
layout: post
title: "JavaScript, JQuery, Rails, OH MY"
date: 2013-10-28 19:40
comments: true
categories:
---
Sometimes Mondays are tough.


Okay friends, I said that I would start blogging more so that not *every single* post was a novel. As much as I know you secretly look forward to them on Fridays. The weekend can't start without that e-mail now can it? I digress.


Today consisted of a heavy morning. We went over two projects from last week. It was good and helpful and necessary. But I had that familiar feeling of "What is happening to me?" Ha- just getting rocked by a new language. Oh the old, familiar feeling. JavaScript just feels so foreign and messy. I know it can do all these great things, but I have this "ugh" gut reaction to it. But then again, maybe I will be made into a lover of JS. Stranger things have happened. AND I did happen to win lunch by asking the "obvious question" about prototypes today. So maybe it's a sign. JavaScript is bearing good fruit so far. So after going over Test First and our Game of Life projects we broke for lunch and resumed on the topic of...


JQUERY. jQuery y'all. Well, this wasn't as terrible as I anticiapted because Nimit had sent out some prep work for the week, *which I did*. And it really did help a ton. It's so much better when you have a reference for these things before diving in. We started a new project for today and tomorrow with a new partner (I managed to keep my seat that I've sat in almost all of Fullstack--Thanks Robert and Wenson, such gentlemen). This project brings it all together. When we all switched back to Ruby there was a collective "uhhh" moment. It's a muscle. Ya gotta use it. So we were back in Ruby. And switching to HTML. And then back to JavaScript. Don't blink or you'll miss it we're so fast. Not really, but it's really cool to have a view of what the bigger picture looks like. Rails, Ruby, I missed you. Being back is like putting on that old familiar t-shirt. I'm excited to do more of this project; we will definitely run into speed bumps, but we have all the tools. Now it's just going to be a matter of honing and getting more confident and being awesome. There, I said it. We are on the path to greatness.


On a side note, I tried again to make reservations for some cronuts. I, yet again, have failed. I forgot because we were in a review and then it was TOO LATE. Soon I think I'm going to have to give up on the dream of making a reservaton and put on my big girl jacket and wait in line. In the cold. For a pastry? Questioning my bold (and highly public) statements about this coveted delicacy. But you know what? I said I was going to do it and I told the whole wide world (web) about it. Which means you'll see me standing in that line soon.

Happy Monday, Y'all.


"Maybe the paths that you each shall tread are already laid before your feet though you do not see them”
― J.R.R. Tolkien, *The Fellowship of the Ring*
